Aliens have come to earth and they happen to be super-intelligent, caring, and capable of communication with humans. Humans find them very agreeable on average, and on average they find humans very agreeable. For the most part, humans and aliens are great pals. They even dine together, sleep together and co-mingle as if they were not from totally different planets. 

The one curious thing is that humans and aliens have very different ways of thinking about reality. Mind you, the aliens came to earth and found humans, not the other way around, so needless to say, it may be aliens who are correct on this point. So, it's worth bearing in mind what they have to say. 

The aliens say that they started their journal in the galaxy thinking that they would find the one true God. They had originally defined their true God as a single entity, complete, without parts, and existing in a timeless state such that no change, and no cause of an effect could ever perturb it in its essential qualitative state. In this sense, they sometimes called their God the first cause, or the unmoved mover, and they referred to it sometimes as the Big Bang or the origin of the cosmos. 

Anyway, to hear aliens tell it nowadays, they can't believe they ever fell for such a crazy story. 

Humans were curious at this gesture. Many humans by and large still believed in such a God, and they often said it was the most minimal way to imagine the true God. This is about the only point of disagreement between the aliens and the humans. 

The aliens say that they have found an alternative minimal way to think about reality.
According to the aliens, the most minimal way to think about reality is as consisting of two dimensions, or parts, or moments. The first dimension, they say, specifies an origin or reference point. The second dimension defines an alternative reference point or origin. They say that when humans make comparisons over these two dimensions it yields change, which is only an apparent third dimension. Like humans, they call this dimension "time" but whereas humans observe time as if it were real, the aliens do not make such comparisons - instead they directly conceive of the essential nature of the universe as consisting of two timeless parts. The parts are equal in their independence from one another, but bound to the same structure, which is completely free of time and cause and effect. In this sense, the only metaphor the aliens and the humans can agree to is that of an origin of the cosmos and a single entity. They aliens are insistent that the one true God does not cause or effect anything at all. Somehow, the aliens maintain the view that the one True God is whole but layered with dependencies. Many humans wonder about the state of this God. If it can't be measured, then how can it be perceived or known? The aliens still have not come up with a good reply to that question.  

 