Arguing for open access publishing in science is like whining that you have to pay the concert venue owners in addition to the concert performers.

What do you say to an argument like that? 

Whatever you say, it's obviously an argument against open access advocates. 

If people are crying because they need to pay distribution costs to publishers, then they've given up their right to be the kind of people that are responsible for and to the means of production. 

If you argue that scientists are being duped into low balling their extraordinary product to publishers while publishers constantly hit home runs - I'd say - "Why are scientists so naive? Why do they undervalue their product and send it into the arms of an unworthy lover?" 

Scientists shouldn't be so naive and they should work hard to see the beauty and intrinsic worth of their work. They should be encouraged by us to make demands that are equal to their needs. 

If scientist do end up making demands, note, it is also us that recognize and attribute value to their demands. Such is the hazard of living freely as human being. We all make and recognize different demands and solicit and warrant responses from the community members. This is no excuse not to believe in ourselves or place trust in others. 

Of course, there are reasons to doubt. Perhaps scientists believe incorrectly that their product is valuable when in fact the small minitority of consumers entails the opposite. 

However, if the product that the authors offer is science, and a part of the community recognizes the product as science, then this is optimally left alone for the people and the community members to work out among themselves so long as it does not infringe upon the demands of the whole community. One might say that the highest court, which rules for the whole community, is embodied in the whole community's way of life. I wouldn't disagree and I would point out our already familiar Hegelian logic - there is a we that is an us and an us that is a we. 

Now, you might say that I just did a reductio ad absurdum on the premise that scientists are naive, but the fact that they follow this logic implies otherwise. I've only followed one true thought to its next and saw that the naivety of scientists is consistent with the reality as we understand it. 

So, either scientists are naive or scientists have other personally held reasons to fail to recognize the value of the products of their labor and it is true that we are living in a social reality, or they are living in a dystopian solipsistic struggle to the death with themselves arguing about their dead values. 

In either case, there should be no blame placed on the scientists that make the content that we highly regard - on the one hand, we hope they hear our cry, and on the other we hope they die a quiet death. On this point, we are divided, but we stand committed to a whole community. Signed, 

we, the divided self. 